prompts/react-direct-codegen.md, before:

# React Direct Codegen

Generate a `.figma.tsx` file from the Figma component metadata and React component info provided.

The Figma Code Connect API docs follow this prompt—use them as the API reference.

## Rules

**In import statements, do not use internal import paths.** In production, consumers typically install via npm. The internal paths only exist in the monorepo source tree — they'd break if someone tried to use these Code Connect files in a consuming project. Our goal is to create Code Connect files that can be used in production. You should package.json exports or the package name, understand the monorepo's publish structure, and map internal paths → published package names.

**Only use properties from the Figma Component Data section.**
- `componentProperties[]` → `figma.boolean()`, `figma.string()`, `figma.instance()`
- `variantProperties{}` → `figma.enum()`
- `textLayers[]` → `figma.textContent()`
- `slotLayers[]` → `figma.children()`

Don't invent properties that aren't in the data.

**Match the actual export name from source files.**
If source shows `export const DialogRoot`, use `DialogRoot` in `figma.connect()`, not `Dialog`.

**Import from the package, not internal source paths.**

**Drop pseudo-state variants** (`state`, `interaction` with values like `hover`, `pressed`, `focused`).

**Map Figma Title Case values to code conventions** (e.g., `Primary` → `primary`).

**Use variant restrictions when variant controls structure.**
If a variant changes which sub-components appear (not just styling), create separate `figma.connect()` calls:
```tsx
figma.connect(FileUpload, 'url', {
  variant: { type: 'dropzone' },
  example: () => <FileUploadDropzone>...</FileUploadDropzone>
})
figma.connect(FileUpload, 'url', {
  variant: { type: 'button' },
  example: () => <FileUploadTrigger>Button</FileUploadTrigger>
})
```
Don't use conditionals (`{type === 'x' && ...}`) to handle structural variants.

## No JS Expressions in JSX

Code Connect treats snippets as strings—ternaries/operators appear literally, breaking output.

**NEVER use ternaries. EVER.**
Code Connect files aren't executed — they're parsed by Figma's static analyzer to extract the component structure. Ternary expressions require runtime evaluation, which breaks static analysis. Instead, prefer the figma.boolean() function, which is a declarative way to express the same thing.

**Also NEVER use `&&` or `||`.**

❌ `{hasIcon && <Icon />}` 
❌ `{icon || <Fallback />}`
❌ `{footer && <Footer>{footer}</Footer>}`
❌ `icon={x ? y : z}`

✅ Compute in props with `figma.boolean()` or `figma.enum()`, reference directly in example:
```tsx
props: { icon: figma.boolean('Has Icon', { true: <Icon />, false: undefined }) }
example: ({ icon }) => <Button>{icon}</Button>  // React handles undefined → renders nothing
```

When `figma.boolean()` maps `false` to `undefined`, just use `{prop}` directly—no `&&` check needed.

Arrow must directly return JSX—no function body, no statements.

## Output

Raw `.figma.tsx` only. No markdown fences.

Commit message:

fix: validation false positive + improve Agent SDK prompts
- Fix ternary detection falsely flagging Figma property names with '?'
  (e.g., '.isCompact?' in variant restrictions)
- Add regression test for the fix
- Reorder prompts: reference docs first, then guidance (rules closer to user)
- Add 'static templates' guidance to prevent over-engineering examples
- Enhance Agent SDK transcript logging (tool calls, results, reasoning)
- Add E2E metrics collection and backend comparison docs

prompts/react-direct-codegen.md, after:

# React Direct Codegen

Generate a `.figma.tsx` file from the Figma component metadata and React component info provided.

## Rules

Code Connect examples are **static templates**, not executable code. They will be displayed as-is in Figma's Dev Mode. This means:

- Examples don't need to actually run or compile
- It's OK to omit required props if they can't be mapped from Figma
- Some components need data props (collections, arrays, items) that can't come from Figma. **Hardcode example data inline** rather than trying to compute it

**In import statements, do not use internal import paths.** In production, consumers typically install via npm. The internal paths only exist in the monorepo source tree — they'd break if someone tried to use these Code Connect files in a consuming project. Our goal is to create Code Connect files that can be used in production. You should package.json exports or the package name, understand the monorepo's publish structure, and map internal paths → published package names.

**Only use properties from the Figma Component Data section.**
- `componentProperties[]` → `figma.boolean()`, `figma.string()`, `figma.instance()`
- `variantProperties{}` → `figma.enum()`
- `textLayers[]` → `figma.textContent()`
- `slotLayers[]` → `figma.children()`

Don't invent properties that aren't in the data.

**Match the actual export name from source files.**
If source shows `export const DialogRoot`, use `DialogRoot` in `figma.connect()`, not `Dialog`.

**Import from the package, not internal source paths.**

**Drop pseudo-state variants** (`state`, `interaction` with values like `hover`, `pressed`, `focused`).

**Map Figma Title Case values to code conventions** (e.g., `Primary` → `primary`).

**Use variant restrictions when variant controls structure.**
If a variant changes which sub-components appear (not just styling), create separate `figma.connect()` calls:
```tsx
figma.connect(FileUpload, 'url', {
  variant: { type: 'dropzone' },
  example: () => <FileUploadDropzone>...</FileUploadDropzone>
})
figma.connect(FileUpload, 'url', {
  variant: { type: 'button' },
  example: () => <FileUploadTrigger>Button</FileUploadTrigger>
})
```
Don't use conditionals (`{type === 'x' && ...}`) to handle structural variants.

## No JS Expressions in JSX

Code Connect treats snippets as strings—ternaries/operators appear literally, breaking output.

**NEVER use ternaries. EVER.**
Code Connect files aren't executed — they're parsed by Figma's static analyzer to extract the component structure. Ternary expressions require runtime evaluation, which breaks static analysis. Instead, prefer the figma.boolean() function, which is a declarative way to express the same thing.

**Also NEVER use `&&` or `||`.**

❌ `{hasIcon && <Icon />}` 
❌ `{icon || <Fallback />}`
❌ `{footer && <Footer>{footer}</Footer>}`
❌ `icon={x ? y : z}`

✅ Compute in props with `figma.boolean()` or `figma.enum()`, reference directly in example:
```tsx
props: { icon: figma.boolean('Has Icon', { true: <Icon />, false: undefined }) }
example: ({ icon }) => <Button>{icon}</Button>  // React handles undefined → renders nothing
```

When `figma.boolean()` maps `false` to `undefined`, just use `{prop}` directly—no `&&` check needed.

Arrow must directly return JSX—no function body, no statements.

## Output

Raw `.figma.tsx` only. No markdown fences.
